Testing :

         Expected Meets Actual

Functional Testing :
                     Testing the basic functionality of the webelement
                           
                           Manual
                           Automation ----> SELENIUM (Testing Tool) alt Cypress , IBM Rational Functional Tester

Selenium Pros and Cons

We already took a close look to Selenium Pros and Cons in a previous post, but to name a few, these are the following pro features or advantages when considering Selenium:
Because Selenium is an open-source testing tool, there are no license fees for users.
Selenium is a cross-platform testing tool that works with several browsers.
Users using Selenium may run tests on any operating system, including Android, Windows, Mac, iOS, and Linux.
Selenium may be used with a variety of browsers, including Safari, Chrome, Internet Explorer, Mozilla, and Opera.
Selenium may be connected with other frameworks such as JUnit, TestNG, and NUnit to create reports and manage test cases.

In the other hand, here are some of Selenium's Cons or disadvantages to consider:
Only web apps may be tested using Selenium. It is not appropriate for testing desktop, mobile, or standalone apps.
Because it is an open-source product, there is no constant nominal or technical support from any team.
Selenium tests are unstable. If new versions of Selenium libraries are published to address a problem, the previous test may be disrupted or rendered unstable.
Selenium's test maintenance is difficult due to its low-level API. It does not aid or support the developer with error capture, page screenshots, or element locators.
Even though Selenium allows users to conduct parallel tests on several machines, this setup requires quite a bit of additional expertise, without which the tests take much too long to run.
Testing on pictures is not possible with Selenium.
cant read barcode ,OTP , captcha cant genrate reports by itself and scroll up or scroll down

Selenium Testing Framework Top Alternatives

If you're looking for a Selenium alternative, here are 6 of the most popular options to consider:

1- Cypress
Cypress is an open-source automation system that has acquired popularity as alternative of Selenium with a number of capabilities that complement existing development tools. Furthermore, no setup is required to install Cypress.

Cypress has gained popularity as a Selenium-alternative test automation framework. Cypress is a developer-focused framework with quick scalability, solid documentation, and a growing community. While Cypress offers fewer connectors than Selenium, it provides for a simpler execution environment setup.

Although Cypress is a Selenium substitute, the two frameworks are not necessarily exclusive. Cypress may also be used to enhance current Selenium scripts and increase overall test coverage and stability.
TestQuality has all the test management capabilities you need for creating, maintaining, organizing, and running tests in Cypress, but TestQuality is 
different from other test management tools in that it is a Test Management Case built for GitHub and Jira workflows and designed to be integrated with 
virtually all unit testing tools and test automation frameworks like Cypress.

TestQuality also includes features to create and organize Cypress test cases in a global test repository - with preconditions, steps, attachments, and more. 
All this, in a collaborative testing environment seamlessly integrated with your CI/CD DevOps workflow with powerful live analytics to help you to identify the
quality of your testing effort, test coverage, high value tests, unreliable tests, and release readiness. 
   

Protactor
Protractor is another open-source Selenium alternative designed primarily for testing Angular web applications. Protractor runs end-to-end tests in JavaScript by
 interacting with the application as a user. As a WebDriverJS wrapper, Protractor supports frameworks such as Cucumber, Mocha, and Jasmine for writing test suites.

Aside from being easier to use in terms of programming language, Protractor is also said to be easier to use than Selenium for Angular apps. It is also built on 
JavaScript Selenium WebDriver, so your team will gain all of Selenium WebDriver's features in addition to Protractor's other advantages.

Protractor offers what it is called 'Automatic Waiting' functionality, which makes the test to automatically execute the next step without waiting for the 
webpage and test to sync. 
Because Protractor is only available in one language, users should be familiar with JavaScript.
Protractor can also run against your Selenium servers, so you can use it as a supplement to Selenium if you run a lot of Selenium tests.

Watir
Watir is an abbreviation for Web Application Testing in Ruby. Watir is an open-source Ruby library for web browser automation.

Watir as an alternative to Selenium Test Automation framework operates a variety of browsers, including Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox, and Chrome, in the same 
manner as humans use. It offers a full-featured contemporary scripting language that makes building and maintaining test scripts simple.            
 
 SELENIUM :
                          It is a Testing Tool to automate the web application

SELENIUM Components / Suites                        
          

































